Now let's look at rebasing.
A rebased history looks really simple and neat.
There is no reason for commands such as git logs to squash
commits into a single timeline because the commits are
arranged in a single timeline already,
so a project that uses a lot of rebasing generally looks more streamlined
and clean than a project that uses a lot of merging,
history wise.
Essentially,
rebasing helps you refactor your project history so that it always looks nice.
This neatness, however, comes at a cost.
This nicely designed history is not real.
It was forged by a rebasing, which is a destructive operation.
Rebasing creates new commits and leaves behind existing
commits that might get garbage collected.
So a rebased history looks cleaner, but it is a lie, in a way. For example,
in this case, it looks like the orange commits were created first, and
light blue commits were created later on top of them,
but this is not what really happened.
The orange and blue commits were created in parallel and in different branches.
So, in contrast to merges, rebases change the project history.
This might not sound like a problem at all. You might say, who
cares what the history looked like originally? Surely, you
only care about the final result.
Well,
actually there are a few situations when you do care about history.
There are some advanced git commands, for example,
that becomes less useful if you tamper with the product history.
But most importantly,
there is a common scenario when this rewriting of history can become painful.
That scenario has to do with distribution, so I have to ask you to be
patient. I will talk about it in the next module. For now, just to
remember this, rebases make your history cleaner,
but they can also cause unwanted side effects.
If I had to condense the differences between mergers and
rebases in just a single recommendation,
it would be this, when in doubt, just merge. Rebasing is a power tool.
It is quite useful,
but you should only use it if you know what you're doing and you understand
the consequences. And that's it about merging and rebasing for now. I
promise that in the next module I will show you a concrete example of how mindless rebasing can land you in trouble.